# Terminology
- **Autosplitter**: A extension to LiveSplit by Maximum that automatically controls the timer and removes loading times on PC. Most competitive runs are run with the autosplitter. A link to LiveSplit and how to set up the Autosplitter is [here](https://www.speedrun.com/gmd/guide/lg6k8).
- **Buffer Click**: An input where you click well-before the action you want to happen actually occurs. This is often used in skips and other strategies as it avoids needing to do unnecessary timings.
- **CPS**: Short for "clicks per second", this means the number of clicks (or inputs) that must be performed to complete a particular strategy/part. CPS is often mentioned for “spam” sections where you must pass tight corridors in primarily ship and wave sections. Generally in this guide we specify the minimum CPS required to pass a section when needed.
- **Force Quit**: A primarily mobile strategy where the game is exited as soon as the level is completed, then immediately re-opened. This has been shown to save time over waiting for the level complete screen to progress as long as the menuing time from the main menu to the next level is short enough. The viability of Force Quit is device-dependent.
- **Frame Alignment**: In a situation where the icon is in the correct x-position to be able to perform a strategy/skip, we would say the icon is in frame alignment. The framerate you are using and the exact way the icon has hit angled speed changes throughout the level determines whether or not you will be in the correct frame alignment for a part. This has an effect on the viability/difficulty of certain precise strategies/skips/timings.
- **FPS**: Short for frames per second, this means the number of “situations” (frames) the game processes every second. By default, FPS is determined by your monitor’s refresh rate. (typically 60hz) The FPS you run the game at will affect the physics of the icon and determine the difficulty and possibility of skips.
- **FPS Bypass**: An allowed hack for the game that allows the game to run at any frame rate, regardless of your refresh rate. There are multiple programs that provide this hack, with some popular options being [Mega Hack v7 (paid)](https://absolllute.com/store/view_mega_hack_pro), [Mega Hack v5 (free)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJ-s7lvD1j4), or [icetea/hotmilk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1YsnXaCBToU) (free).
- **Lag Abuse**: A glitch where the orb hitbox can be extended for a short time by holding the side of the windowed game and buffering a spacebar input. This can be used to perform skips or bypass level bugs.
- **Menu Lock**: An state where you are unable to enter any levels. This occurs when you attempt to enter a level before the menu has fully transitioned. In order to get out of menu lock, you must either enter a different level, or exit and re-enter the level menu.
- **Secret Way**: A strategy that exits the bounds of the level. This can save time in some cases, but in others is useful just to avoid playing specific parts of the level.
- **Ship Clip**: A strategy that involves clipping inside of a solid block slightly as the ship. In some situations, this can be used to skip speed changes.
- **Skip**: A strategy in a level that avoids a speed changer that would be slower than your current speed. This is the primary way to save time in speedruns outside of menuing between levels.
