# 1-8 (Stereo Madness to Time Machine)
The most popular category on speedrun.com, modelled after the full-game run in Update 1.1. This run is one of the most accessible to newcomers, but has brutally difficult menuing at the highest level.

## Levels Included
- [Stereo Madness](../levels/stereomadness.md)
- [Back on Track](../levels/backontrack.md)
- [Polargeist](../levels/polargeist.md)
- [Dry Out](../levels/dryout.md)
- [Base After Base](../levels/baseafterbase.md)
- [Can't Let Go](../levels/cantletgo.md)
- [Jumper](../levels/jumper.md)
- [Time Machine](../levels/timemachine.md)

## Menuing (for PC)
For 1-8, no skips are possible due to the absence of speed changers in every level. Therefore, both at a competitive level come down to playing on 360fps and menuing as fast as possible. In this game, fast menuing is extremely difficult and punishing. You will need to do 7 menus to complete a 1-8 run, and entering levels early will cause Menu Lock, which instantly ends your attempt at a competitive level.

It’s also worth it to note you can complete the levels in any order. The standard routes are Stereo Madness to Time Machine or Time Machine to Stereo Madness, but do whatever makes you comfortable.

Menuing consists of at minimum 3 inputs: An escape press to exit to the main level menu, a left or right press with the arrow keys to switch to the next level, and a spacebar (or Enter key) press to enter the next level. If performed absolutely perfectly, this process takes approximately 4.00 seconds, so the goal is to get as close to that limit as possible. Let’s go through each input.

The escape press becomes possible about 3.5 seconds after the icon hits the ending wall. There are two possible strategies:
1. You can spam the escape key until you exit the level. This practically guarantees a exit time in the 3.5 to 3.6 range as long as you are fast enough, but as such the exit time is inconsistent. This is important for the last press as its success partially depends on this input.
2. You can attempt to **time** the escape input. This introduces an extra spot the run can die to (timing too early will not exit the level and lose a lot of time) but if the timing is learned can get your exit times very close to 3.5. The cue for timing the escape input can be through feeling or by looking at the autosplitter timer. When the timer is about to reach 3.5, press escape.

The left/right press is fairly harmless. There is no risk of losing time here outside of taking too long to do so before the enter press. As long as you don’t take more than about 0.3 seconds after hitting escape you should be fine.

Finally, the spacebar/enter input. The way menu-locking works is that it takes about 0.5 seconds for the transition from the level to the menu. This 0.5 seconds starts from your exit input. If you enter too early, the game will Menu Lock and you will need to enter another level, exit and re-enter the level you originally were trying to enter. This loses about 1 second, which generally kills a competitive run. If you enter late, you will enter the level but obviously lose time. Entering “late” is subjective and depends on what caliber of run you are going for. For example, on 360fps getting an 11:51 requires an average menu time of 4.28, which with some practice is a very reliable time to get under. However, getting an 11:50 requires an average menu time of 4.15, which is harder (getting an 11:50 gets you a special role on the Discord server, by the way!). Currently, a world-record level run requires an average menu time of 4.04, which is a very small margin of error.

## Menuing (for Mobile)
You can menu normally as you would for PC, but you won’t have access to escape or enter inputs (unless you are on an Android emulator or have buttons for those).

However, mobile’s very fast game exit and load times allow for the <u>Force Quit</u> strategy. This involves quitting the game as soon as the icon hits the end wall (or the percentage reaches 100%), opening the game back up immediately, and quickly menuing back to the next level.

For 1-8, doing this on every level is faster than menuing normally if performed fast enough. The benefits are greatest for earlier levels though. (for example, force-quitting to get to Stereo Madness is faster and less input-intensive then force-quitting to get to Jumper)

Quitting the game on iOS involves pulling up on the bottom of the game’s window just slightly enough to enter the “app switcher mode” and swipe up again to close the game. This takes some practice and timing.

Alternatively to pulling up, you can setup the AssistiveTouch accessibility feature so when you tap on it, it enters app switcher mode. This will still require learning the timing, but it avoids the effort required to learn how to pull up on the game’s window quickly.

Menuing to a further level is very spam-heavy. Getting from Stereo Madness to Jumper fast entails hitting the right-arrow button 6 times very quickly, which takes practice and good technique. Most spamming techniques are effective (jitter, butterfly, etc.) but most special ones require an awkward way to hold the phone, so I would recommend just practicing jittering (vibrating your tapping finger or vibrating the phone itself)

## Current World Records
- 1-8 Any%, PC: [11:50.260](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bwcMzqHDkk) by paprikkk
- 1-8 100%, PC: [11:50.620](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fxyPn9nwMM0) by GlisteningNip
- 1-8 Any%, Mac/Linux: [12:02.767](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vlLFmDs8MDA) by nathan.hys
- 1-8 100%, Mac/Linux: *none*
- 1-8 Any%, Mobile: 11:49.833 by lexicon
- 1-8 100%, Mobile: 11:50.633 by Walgrey
